docs(ai-agents): populate System Architecture section under Core Concepts (#76988)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/ai-agents/concepts/architecture/workspaces.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Workspaces

A workspace is an isolation boundary within an [organization](./organizations). Each workspace holds its own set of connectors and credentials. A token scoped to one workspace cannot access connectors in another.

## The default workspace

> Every organization starts with a workspace named `default`. Most apps use this single workspace and never need to create additional ones. The [SDK](../../interfaces/sdk), [API](../../interfaces/api), and [MCP server](../../interfaces/mcp) all target the `default` workspace unless you specify otherwise.

Author: Can we talk about "people" instead of apps? The same logic applies on the web app.

## When to create additional workspaces

Create additional workspaces when you need to isolate credentials across distinct boundaries. Common scenarios include:

- **Multi-tenant SaaS** — Give each of your customers their own workspace so their credentials and data stay separate.
- **Team isolation** — Separate engineering, sales, and support connectors into their own workspaces.
- **Environment separation** — Use different workspaces for development, staging, and production.

If none of these apply, the `default` workspace is all you need.

## Workspace identifiers

Every workspace has two identifiers:

- **UUID** (`id`) — An Airbyte-assigned identifier that never changes. Persist this in your backend and use it for any operation that accepts a `workspace_id`.
- **Name** (`workspace_name`) — A human-readable label you choose when the workspace is created. Routing endpoints like scoped-token minting and connector creation accept the name as a lookup key.

The UUID is the durable identifier. The name is a convenience for routing.

## Create a workspace

> Workspaces are created automatically. The first time you mint a [scoped token](../../interfaces/api/authentication#scoped-token) against a new `workspace_name`, Airbyte creates the workspace for you. Use any stable string that makes sense in your app — for example, an internal tenant ID or team slug.

Author: We should probably say you can't do this through the web app. This is a developer-only feature.

## Scoped tokens

> A scoped token limits access to a single workspace. Most apps that use the `default` workspace can skip scoped tokens entirely and authenticate with an [application token](../../interfaces/api/authentication#application-token). Generate a scoped token when you need to hand a token to a component that should only see one workspace's connectors.

Author: ```suggestion
A scoped token limits access to a single workspace. If you just use the `default` workspace (most cases), you can skip scoped tokens entirely and authenticate with an [application token](../../interfaces/api/authentication#application-token). Generate a scoped token when you need to hand a token to a component that should only see one workspace's connectors.
```
